CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to folks-finance-xchain-js-sdk

## Table of Contents

- [Using nvm to Manage Node.js Version](#using-nvm-to-manage-nodejs-version)
- [Using pnpm Managed via Corepack](#using-pnpm-managed-via-corepack)
- [Commit Guidelines](#commit-guidelines)

### Using nvm to Manage Node.js Version

We use `nvm` (Node Version Manager) to manage the version of Node.js used in this project. The required Node.js version is specified in the `.nvmrc` file. To ensure you are using the correct version, follow these steps:

1. **Install nvm**: If you don't have `nvm` installed, you can install it by following the instructions on the [nvm GitHub repository](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).

2. **Activate the Correct Node.js Version**:

   ```bash
   nvm install
   nvm use
   ```

These commands will read the .nvmrc file and set your Node.js version accordingly. For more detailed instructions and troubleshooting, refer to the [nvm documentation](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).

### Using pnpm Managed via Corepack

We use `pnpm` as our package manager, which is managed via `corepack`. To get started with `pnpm`, follow these steps:

1. **Enable corepack**:

   ```bash
   corepack enable
   ```

2. **Use pnpm**: After enabling `corepack`, you will be able to use `pnpm` for managing dependencies and running scripts.

For a more complete guide on installing and using pnpm with corepack, please refer to the [pnpm documentation](https://pnpm.io/installation#using-corepack).

### Commit Guidelines

We use `commitlint` to ensure that all commit messages follow the `conventional-commit` standard. This helps us maintain a clear and consistent commit history.

The best way to make commits is by using the following command:

```bash
pnpm commit
```

This will launch an automated prompt that guides you step by step through writing a commit message according to our conventions.

For more information on the `conventional-commit` convention, please refer to the [Conventional Commits specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

Commit message:

docs: update README and CONTRIBUTING (#93)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to folks-finance-xchain-js-sdk

## Table of Contents

- [Contributing to folks-finance-xchain-js-sdk](#contributing-to-folks-finance-xchain-js-sdk)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
    - [Using nvm to Manage Node.js Version](#using-nvm-to-manage-nodejs-version)
    - [Using pnpm Managed via Corepack](#using-pnpm-managed-via-corepack)
    - [Commit Guidelines](#commit-guidelines)
    - [Changesets and Automated Versioning](#changesets-and-automated-versioning)

### Using nvm to Manage Node.js Version

We use `nvm` (Node Version Manager) to manage the version of Node.js used in this project. The required Node.js version is specified in the `.nvmrc` file. To ensure you are using the correct version, follow these steps:

1. **Install nvm**: If you don't have `nvm` installed, you can install it by following the instructions on the [nvm GitHub repository](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).

2. **Activate the Correct Node.js Version**:

   ```bash
   nvm install
   nvm use
   ```

These commands will read the .nvmrc file and set your Node.js version accordingly. For more detailed instructions and troubleshooting, refer to the [nvm documentation](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).

### Using pnpm Managed via Corepack

We use `pnpm` as our package manager, which is managed via `corepack`. To get started with `pnpm`, follow these steps:

1. **Enable corepack**:

   ```bash
   corepack enable
   ```

2. **Use pnpm**: After enabling `corepack`, you will be able to use `pnpm` for managing dependencies and running scripts.

For a more complete guide on installing and using pnpm with corepack, please refer to the [pnpm documentation](https://pnpm.io/installation#using-corepack).

### Commit Guidelines

We use `commitlint` to ensure that all commit messages follow the `conventional-commit` standard. This helps us maintain a clear and consistent commit history.

The best way to make commits is by using the following command:

```bash
pnpm commit
```

This will launch an automated prompt that guides you step by step through writing a commit message according to our conventions.

For more information on the `conventional-commit` convention, please refer to the [Conventional Commits specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

### Changesets and Automated Versioning

All commits must go through pull requests. In every pull request where changes are made that modify the SDK, you have to generate a changeset by launching:

```bash
pnpm changeset
```

This command will guide you through creating a changeset file that describes the changes made in the pull request and specifies the type of version bump required (patch, minor, major).

Package versioning, publishing, and the generation of changelogs on GitHub releases are automated via GitHub Actions. This ensures that the package is always up-to-date and that every change is properly versioned, published, and documented without manual intervention.

For more information on creating and managing changesets, please refer to the [Changesets documentation](https://github.com/changesets/changesets/blob/b59375614b1b3dabdf67806cd202defb314686a8/docs/adding-a-changeset.md).
